Al: Hello, farmers, and welcome to another episode of the harvest season.
Al: My name is Al.
Chelsea: And my name is Chelsea.
Al: And we're here today to talk about cottage core games.
Al: Woo.
Chelsea: Woo-hoo.
Al: Welcome, Chelsea.
Al: This is your 1st time on the podcast and with this, I get to check off another country off my list.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: First Canadian, I think, I think 1st Canadian.
Chelsea: Oh, 1st Canadian.
Al: I was looking through my list, unless one of the people, unless one of the developers that I've interviewed was Canadian at some point, but I don't think so.
Chelsea: Yay.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: I think, I think the closest we got was one of them was in, what's it called? Seattle.
Al: I think that's the closest we've got close enough.
Chelsea: Close enough.
Al: I wouldn't say that to them.
Chelsea: Uh, yeah, no.
Al: Anyway, welcome.
Chelsea: Thank you.
Chelsea: Despite being Canadian, it is 35 degrees right now.
Al: Oh goodness.
Chelsea: Um, yeah, so we either get -40 or +40.
Al: Horrifying.
Al: It is, it is 14 here just now.
Chelsea: Oh, is it sunny?
Chelsea: Is it rain?
Al: Uh, it's not been too bad.
Al: It's not been raining.
Al: Um, but it's not been like really sunny.
Al: It's kind of just The word that we would use in Scotland is Drech.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: It just means it's kind of cloudy.
Al: It's just kind of a bit.
Al: it's fine.
Al: It's fine.
Chelsea: It's fine.
Chelsea: Yeah, for indifferent.
Al: It's three.
Al: Um, So I got Chelsea on today to talk about a game that I've been, I've talked about a few times on the podcast and finally got the chance to play and that is Find Your Words.
Chelsea: Good.
Al: This is a game where you play a non-verbal character going to summer camp and learning how to use a, um, uh, picture exchange communication board.
Al: And so I thought it would be good to 1st up, get another parent on the podcast to talk about that.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: And it turns out there were other good reasons to get Chelsea on that I didn't know about.
Chelsea: Oh yeah, surprise.
Chelsea: Um, yeah, so my daughter, when she was born, she had a bit of a speech disorder.
Chelsea: Um, we were told originally that she would never go to like a regular school.
Chelsea: She would never be able to have friends and pretty terrible thing to say.
Chelsea: Um, but then we found the right speech therapist that worked with her and she's, you wouldn't even be able to tell now, but we did have the augmentative communication book with her, um, when she was in kindergarten.
Chelsea: And I personally think that this game, it should be mandatory for school boards, like for people that, you know, like, um, that may have students in their class that use it just to have a better understanding because I found the way that they did this game was incredible.
Al: Yeah, I'm I'm legitimately thinking whether I should be getting uh my one of my other child to play it because obviously I've talked.
Al: I don't know whether I've talked about it or not, but my eldest child is non-verbal.
Al: And we can talk about the specifics of that in the thing, but yeah, as you say, I'm legitimately considering getting my verbal child to use it because it's interesting.
Chelsea: Yes.
Chelsea: Yep.
Al: Yeah, we'll get to that.
Al: Well get to that.
Chelsea: Oh, sure, okay, fair enough, fair enough.
Al: Let not get too deep into it just now.
Al: Let's not get too deep into it just now.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: We will talk about that after the news before the news.
Al: Chelsea, what have you been up to?
Chelsea: I have too many children to keep track of.
Chelsea: Um, so.
Al: That is your fault entirely.
Chelsea: That is my fault entirely, yes, it is.
Al: Well, well, you and your husband.
Chelsea: Well, it takes two.
Al: It does.
Chelsea: Um, yeah, so end of school year, we don't end school until end of June here.
Chelsea: I know it's earlier in some parts of the world.
Chelsea: Um,
Al: Now, it's the end of June here as well.
Chelsea: Oh, good.
Al: We, I'm, yeah, I think this every summer.
Al: Like, do American schools just go off for like 3 whole months?
Chelsea: It seems that way because I see people talking at like end of May and they're already sick of their kids on summer vacation and I'm like, oh, we still have another month to go.
Al: Yeah.
Al: But it's madness.
Chelsea: Um.
Al: And we and we finish earlier than England.
Al: England doesn't finish till like the middle of July.
Chelsea: Wow.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: So do they start end of September?
Al: Uh, some yeah, sometime September, yeah.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: I'm not sure when exactly.
Chelsea: All right.
Chelsea: Anyway, yeah, so my kids are all busy with their own activities and um, I'm basically the chauffeur that comes along for the ride.
Chelsea: But in my main, in my spare time.
Chelsea: I do like Pokemon, Zelda, Animal Crossing.
Chelsea: Um, yeah.
Chelsea: Hockey, because I'm Canadian.
Chelsea: It's almost a Stanley Cup final game, so I've been busy with that.
Al: Oh, that reminds me.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: That reminds me, I have a question, because I was talking to Ronan, my wife, and we were talking about hockey because when you say hockey, you mean the played on ice, right?
Chelsea: I saw.
Al: What would you call when it's played in a field?
Chelsea: Uh, Field hockey?
Al: You'd call it field hockey and because we we flip those.
Chelsea: Yeah, yes.
Chelsea: Oh, really?
Al: So we would call field hockey.
Al: we would call it hockey and ice hockey we would call ice hockey.
Chelsea: Oh, interesting.
Al: I just find it funny because I was talking about it and then Rona was like, wait, what do they call hockey then?
Chelsea: Yeah, I know we had.
Al: Like...
Chelsea: Yeah, no, we.
Chelsea: Default thing here is just hockey and I live in a pretty small town and like every child here plays hockey.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: So no one can make plans from July to April because everyone just has hockey tournaments everywhere.
Chelsea: But, uh, Yeah, so that's what I've been.
Al: Fair enough.
Chelsea: That's what I've been up to.
Chelsea: How about you?
Al: Uh, yeah, what have I been up to?
Al: Well, played Find Your Words, obviously.
Chelsea: Yes.
Chelsea: Oh yes, and I did that.
Al: It wasn't wasn't too long to play, which was nice, but we'll get into that.
Chelsea: Yes.
Chelsea: No?
Al: I've also watched the Among Us TV show.
Al: I don't know if you're you're aware of that.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: I was not.
Al: You're aware of the game, presumably among us.
Chelsea: Yes, I'm aware of the game, yes.
Al: They shadow dropped the TV show last week at Summer Game Fest.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: Um, I think we knew it was coming, but we didn't know anything, and then there were just like, yeah, it's it's out now, it's on Paramount Plus now.
Chelsea: Wow.
Al: So I watched that this week.
Chelsea: Oh, wow.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: I might have to sit down and watch.
Al: It's actually pretty good.
Al: I thought it was very fun.
Al: It's now, here's the problem.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Is it suitable for kids?
Al: Kind of?
Al: It's quite, it's kind of graphic for younger kids.
Chelsea: Okay, okay.
Chelsea: I wasn't sure if they were going to lean into the memes of it, or if they were just going to make it fine, family friendly.
Al: Yeah.
Al: I mean, it is still animated and I guess it's, I guess it's not any more graphic than the game.
Al: It just kind of feels a bit different when it's a show.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: I don't know why.
Chelsea: Yeah, that's fair.
Al: Um, but.
Chelsea: Hmm.
Chelsea: Well, I'm sure my kids are going to be all over that.
Chelsea: So.
Chelsea: How long is it?
Al: It was fun and so it is 8 episodes that are 15 minutes long each.
Al: So not super long.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: No, that's good.
Al: But it's it's fun.
Al: It's got a little murder mystery if you can figure out who the imposters are.
Chelsea: The imposter?
Chelsea: Oh, okay.
Chelsea: Did you get it right?
Al: I I guessed both of them right and then I 2nd guessed myself and went, no, no, they wouldn't do that and changed my mind. And I was really annoyed because I was right.
Chelsea: Ah, no, ah.
Al: So, yeah, uh, Yes, well, well, they subverted it in not subverting it.
Chelsea: They subverted your expectations.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: It's hard to explain.
Al: I can't say too much without giving it away, but yeah, I was like, I think it's going to be this, but no, no, they wouldn't do that.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: No, no, no.
Chelsea: I watch it.
Al: That's, yeah, but then they did.
Chelsea: There's no way.
Al: So.
Al: Oh, well.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: Oh well.
Al: But I know, I enjoyed it.
Chelsea: That's good.
Al: And then the controversy of the week.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: I started playing the Dragon Shelter demo.
Al: Chelsea is saying yes, because I talked about this in the Slack already.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: I was playing Dragon Shelter demo and I was kind of getting into it.
Al: It was quite a little bit interesting.
Al: kind of bits of it felt a little bit weird and stuff, but I was, I was, I was getting into it.
Al: And then I noticed one of the character portraits looked very much like that kind of overemphasised Pixar look that a lot of AI generated stuff have.
Chelsea: Yep.
Chelsea: It has that like shine to it that you could just tell it was not man.
Al: Yeah, exactly.
Al: And that suddenly got my suspicions up.
Al: You see that all the time.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: Like we were talking about this on the slack, like how you see it in like random posters and stuff like that.
Al: Like people just, they put on.
Al: the kind of standard AI generated character image.
Al: Um, And I've done this several times this week where I go, oh, that definitely feels like AI generated.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: So you zoom in to look at all the details and try and figure, you know, find the smoking gun, right?
Al: Because some of it could be just be like, oh, that's just a stylistic thing, right?
Al: Like the 1st thing I noticed was like this character's, um, uh, eyebrow was over the hair.
Al: And I'm like, but that doesn't necessarily mean any, it's a kind of makes me think maybe, but it could just be a weird stylistic choice.
Chelsea: Ah.
Al: And then you notice that, um, the, the tool that she's wearing is a bit, holding is a bit weird, like it's kind of like both a, like a hole and a fork at the same time and you're like, that doesn't seem right.
Al: But again, I guess it could just be a stylistic choice.
Al: They're doing some weird thing.
Al: I'm not very far into this game.
Al: Maybe there's a point to it.
Al: I don't know.
Al: And then someone on the slack pointed out that the tool goes through her neck.
Chelsea: Yeah, there's your giveaway.
Al: Because I, because I did this, I did the same thing with the, I did the same thing with the poster for, uh, like there's a talent show happening in my town. I was like, that looks really AI generated.
Chelsea: I know.
Chelsea: Put it all together.
Al: Let me zoom in and try and find the proof.
Al: And I was like, oh, this looks a little bit weird.
Al: All those fingers look very weird.
Al: And then I noticed, oh, wait, one of the characters has 3 arms.
Chelsea: Oh, no.
Chelsea: You can always tell in the hands too.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Um...
Al: So, yeah, um, that obviously.
Al: Frustrated me a bit and uh, yeah, I don't, I think the most frustrating thing about it is not necessarily that.
Al: Like, I'm not,
Al: I'm not a big fan of AI generated images.
Al: I don't think it's necessarily enough in every case to mean that I'm never going to play a game.
Al: I'm not saying it's okay for indie devs to do that sort of thing, but I can understand why somebody would do that.
Al: Again, I'm not getting into necessarily saying that I think it's okay.
Al: However, my big issue with it is that steam rules say you have to say whether there's AI generated assets or not and they haven't done that on steam. And that's my like, okay, this is definitely not okay, right?
Chelsea: Oh okay.
Al: Like.
Chelsea: No, no, for sure.
Chelsea: Yeah, and maybe if it was for like a placeholder or something, but then you wouldn't be, people wouldn't be playing it.
Al: Yeah, well, I always feel like the placeholder one is such a, it feels like such an excuse because like a placeholder can literally be anything, right?
Al: Like put a stick figure in as a placeholder, right?
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Honest to God I would rather play a game that has a stick figure than an AI generated image.
Al: Like you don't need...
Al: I just, I just feel like the, the, the, the, or we used AI placeholders.
Al: It's such a stupid thing because then you're saying, well, 0 yeah, we used the environment destroying technology, but only for temporary things.
Chelsea: Just for a little bit.
Chelsea: No, we don't need it after.
Al: That makes it worse.
Chelsea: That's fair.
Chelsea: Okay, I revoke my argument.
Al: Right.
Al: Like, if you're going to do it in the permanent thing and be like, I think if you're going to do AI generated images, go all in, make it a point, tell people you're doing it, and then, and then you can, if you're convinced that people don't care, prove it, right?
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Like say we're using AI generated images and we're doing it deliberately and then we'll see what happens whether people continue to buy it or not, right?
Al: I think this is the thing is like most of the time, I actually saw an interesting video about this.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Most people, when they get caught, if you will, with AI generated images.
Al: I know that word is obviously whatever, but when people find AI generated images, they will always go something like, oh, it was just a placeholder and we forgot to fix that.
Al: We changed that one.
Chelsea: easy way out.
Al: Yeah, it's the easy way out and it's like, well, okay, what if there's other ones we've missed?
Al: Right?
Al: Like, how do we know?
Chelsea: Sure enough.
Al: Um, But like, just if you if you think it's okay, just see it, right?
Al: Like just say, yeah, no, we did it.
Chelsea: Stand behind it.
Al: We don't care, right?
Al: Like, yeah.
Al: Do it or don't do it.
Al: And I just like the whole idea of the placeholder of things is it makes it harder to notice placeholder images when they're realistic looking.
Chelsea: That's true too.
Al: So if you really care about these images not getting out, you do a stupid, you go into paint, you draw a stick figure, you put that in.
Al: That's a placeholder image, right?
Al: A realistic looking Over the top AI generated image is not a placeholder image.
Al: And I cannot be convinced that anyone is legitimately wanting to use them as placeholder images.
Chelsea: It's true.
Al: I just can't.
Chelsea: You could just draw your little stick figure and then dump out 20 litres of water and you've done the same thing.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Anyway, rant over.
Al: Uh, I'm not going to tell you to not play the game.
Al: I will tell you, they're using AI generated images and they're not telling you they're doing that.
Al: That's what I'm.
Chelsea: Hmm.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: So, sadly, that's one episode I won't be doing.
Al: I'm not saying I won't cover the game in the future.
Al: I don't know how I feel about that, but I'm certainly not covering the demo in this state. It's in just now with...
Chelsea: No, so was it far into the game that you found it or?
Al: I was maybe like an hour in, so it wasn't too bad, but I think I think this is the thing is I...
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: It's I don't want to be one of those people that says, oh, well, everything has AI.
Al: Everything's going to end up having AI, so why bother fighting it, right?
Al: And I'm also not this
Chelsea: No.
Al: also not the sort of person that says that all, um, all LLM based stuff is wrong.
Al: I don't believe that personally.
Al: Uh, I definitely use some in my coding because it makes specific things that I do much quicker.
Al: What I do have a problem with is the maximalizing, we're going to use it for everything.
Al: I don't like it being used for art, just in general.
Chelsea: No.
Al: I think that that's silly.
Chelsea: Exactly.
Al: And I think I can kind of see the argument of like, oh, I'm an indie developer, I can't do everything and I don't have the money to do these things.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: I'm not saying it's okay.
Al: I can see the argument, but here's a thing.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: Why are you making a game? If you don't want to make art.
Chelsea: Well, that's it.
Chelsea: You're supposed to use AI to do to regular things in your life so you can make the art yourself.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Not use AI for the art.
Al: Yeah, yeah, it's, it, it, I don't, I don't, if you, if you don't want to make any of the art for a game.
Chelsea: No, that's totally.
Al: You're essentially just writing a physics engine.
Al: And that's the boring bit, right?
Chelsea: true, it's true.
Al: Like, that's the bit we pay other companies to do for us.
Al: Like, I don't know.
Chelsea: Exactly.
Chelsea: I think of the reason people even love art games.
Al: I don't know what.
Chelsea: Sorry, I'm cutting you off here.
Al: No, no go for it.
Chelsea: The reason people love games so much.
Chelsea: It could have the most basic playing formula, but if you love the art, a lot of people will stick with that.
Chelsea: And I don't find the opposite to be true.
Chelsea: Like if the game is fun or if the art, sorry, if the game is great, but the art looks bad, people may not be as interested.
Al: Yeah, yeah, I think I think it probably depends on who you are.
Al: But yeah, like I just, I just feel like if you're, if you don't care about how your game looks.
Al: I don't understand why you're making a game, right?
Al: Like, there are, there are so many arguments for like, I don't like doing this part of this job, and so therefore I will automate this part of this job.
Chelsea: Yeah, that's.
Al: There are very many legitimate reasons for that in so many jobs, but like, what's the core point of your job, right?
Chelsea: Mm-hmm.
Al: It's like, it's like with, with, let's go back to my job programming, right?
Al: Like I quite often use AI to like check that.
Al: It's really good at like finding, you know, tiny bugs that I've missed or it's really good at like noticing the specific testing that I've missed out or it's really good at me going, I have absolutely no idea what the issue is with here.
Al: Can you, you know, see if you can figure out something I'm missing.
Al: It's really good for those things, things that humans are really bad at, right?
Al: Like humans are really bad at tiny minute details.
Al: Ironically, the thing it's really bad at in images.
Al: But,
Chelsea: Yeah, fair.
Al: But like, I don't understand why the developers, right, I understand why normal people will be doing this because they want to make their own software and not do the coding.
Al: But I don't understand, and this is happening all over the industry and it's driving me insane.
Al: I don't understand why developers are vibe coding, why they're going, I don't want to do the coding anymore.
Al: I just want to talk to the computer and tell it what to do.
Al: Your job is decoding.
Chelsea: Right.
Chelsea: Yep.
Chelsea: This is what you, yeah, exactly.
Al: Right?
Chelsea: So.
Al: Like, I, I, I, I can, it's different if you're talking about a societal level, right?
Al: Like say, let's talk about like self-driving cars.
Al: I personally think the self-driving cars overall will be better in at some point, hopefully, than human drivers.
Al: And I think that when we get to that point, we should probably stop driving as humans because they'll be better than us and less people will die.
Al: If I was a taxi driver, I wouldn't be doing that myself.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: Right?
Chelsea: Kick back and just join them on the ride.
Al: Exactly.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Like, there's a massive difference there.
Al: Like don't don't automate yourself out of the job.
Chelsea: Don't make yourself obsolete.
Al: It's just, it's absolutely bizarre to me.
Al: Like, I want to make a game, but I don't want to make any art.
Al: I don't know why you're making the game.
Chelsea: And you think about it too, when people start with, if they have, like, an idea for a game in their head, the 1st thing they want to do, typically, from what I've seen is they want to make the art.
Chelsea: They want to draw out their characters.
Chelsea: And then they think of the engine later.
Al: Yeah, and Yeah, absolutely.
Chelsea: Oh man.
Chelsea: Oh, dear.
Al: Anyway.
Al: There we go.
Al: That's our AI rant overdone for this episode.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: Let's talk about some bear things.
Al: Let's jump into the news.
Al: So we have a few more releases.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: I think maybe a couple of these have been some game stuff that either I missed or was announced afterwards.
Al: Um, but uh, let's start off with Dangie Days, um, have announced that they're releasing in October.
Al: So we don't have an exact release date for this one yet, but we do now have a month.
Chelsea: Well, better than some of them that give you a year.
Al: Yeah, let's see what actually happens.
Al: The ranchers have announced that their early access is coming out on the 30th of July.
Al: Uh, I feel like both of these games I'm going to end up playing at some point, but when I don't know.
Al: It's always my problem is trying to fit them all in.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: Put them in.
Al: Uh, Loftier.
Al: I have announced that their early access is coming in fall 2026.
Al: whatever that means.
Chelsea: Whatever that means.
Al: Because, I mean, from my understanding, that could mean any time from end of August to December.
Chelsea: Yep.
Al: It's basically like the 2nd half of the year.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Uh.
Chelsea: Hopefully they say something.
Al: I always find these like release windows funny.
Al: Like they're like, I'm not happy enough that I'm going to release on a date, but I will tell you a season. And you're like, okay.
Chelsea: Yeah, we'll see what the vibes are like around this week and see.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: See you for feeling it.
Al: I wonder whether it's one of these like they actually want to do it in November, so they're waiting to see whether GTA comes out or not.
Chelsea: I was gonna say maybe for Zelda, well, maybe not for Zelda, but for, yeah, GTA.
Chelsea: See when that comes out and give it some hype and then let you guys come in after.
Chelsea: Or before.
Al: Still almost nothing is coming out in November.
Chelsea: No, I have a hope that Ocarina time does come out in November.
Al: I feel like I feel like that's the only reason they haven't told us the date yet.
Chelsea: But we'll see.
Chelsea: They're coordinating in the back with the other.
Al: No, they're just, no, they're just waiting for GTA to delay.
Al: Like we all know it's going to happen again.
Al: So they're just waiting for it and then they'll announce it's coming out in November.
Chelsea: Oh man.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: This is the funniest thing to me about it all, is that everyone's avoiding November, and it's not the game's not coming out in November.
Chelsea: No.
Al: Convinced all that.
Al: The Dave the diver in the jungle DLC has a date as well that is coming out on the 18th of June, which is Thursday.
Chelsea: Yeah, that looks fun.
Al: So it's the day after this episode comes out.
Al: Have you played the game?
Chelsea: I've seen people play it.
Chelsea: Um, it does look like a good time.
Al: It's a great game.
Al: I love it.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: It's so good.
Al: I think I will be buying.
Al: He's a really good kid.
Chelsea: Good.
Chelsea: No, I'm more of a, I have to be a portable gamer.
Chelsea: With kids, so I bring my switch around, but uh, maybe one day I'll get a steamed duck.
Al: I'm pretty sure Dave the Diver's on Switch.
Chelsea: Yeah?
Chelsea: Oh, that'd be good.
Al: Yep, it is.
Al: Farming camp.
Al: Now this is a funny one.
Al: They officially don't have a release date.
Al: However, they announced their physical edition, and on Amazon, it says it's releasing on the 28th of September.
Chelsea: What?
Al: No, 24th of September.
Al: So that's not the usual like, oh, it says the 31st of December, right?
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: which is kind of a standard thing that Amazon do for when they don't know some when something's coming out.
Al: So it's not that.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: So is this the actual release date and they've just like accidentally announced it through that?
Chelsea: Oh, that's like when Target releases vinyl dates by accident.
Al: Yeah, weird.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: And I think the weirder thing is it's been up for a couple of days and they've still not said anything.
Al: Why are you not just announcing it now?
Chelsea: Oh.
Chelsea: Yeah, I don't know.
Al: Super farming boy have announced that they, oh, well, they've not announced anything.
Al: They are just out on switch now.
Chelsea: Just out on switch now.
Al: So if you're waiting for this game to be on Switch, now's your chance.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Have you played this one?
Al: I haven't, actually, no.
Al: I think it would stress me out.
Al: It's very fast-paced game.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: And I can't decide whether I will like it or not.
Chelsea: Uh, it's like when you see people playing, um, I don't know if this is normal, but when my husband Pat plays Harvest Moon.
Chelsea: It's supposed to be a nice cosy, quiet game, and he runs around like breaking a sweat all day, like stressed out.
Chelsea: He makes maps of crops on a piece of paper and like, this is supposed to be fun.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, there, there, there are 22 ways to play those games.
Chelsea: What are you doing?
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: That is one way and the other is, ah, I'll get to it eventually.
Al: Like, and that's generally me.
Chelsea: Yep. Yep.
Al: I do think that I think if you're trying to do something specific with it.
Al: Like if you enjoy the challenge of trying to do something efficiently, then that is one way to play things.
Al: But I also think that people unnecessarily stress themselves out about farming games and they're like, oh, there's too much to do.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: I don't know what to do.
Al: And the answer is, you don't need to do it all now.
Al: You can do it later.
Chelsea: See, that's why I haven't played Stardew Valley.
Chelsea: I have it on like 3 different things and I have not touched it because and I wish I did because it looks amazing.
Al: I'll say, on.
Al: So what you need to do, what you need to do, Chelsea, load up the game and decide one thing you're going to do.
Al: Probably for your 1st one, you should probably focus on the farming, because that's what it's, you know, the core thing.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: Just start it up.
Al: Just start farming.
Al: Just see how it happens.
Al: And then as you're playing the game, you will naturally find other things and be like, oh, I'm interested in that now and you'll do that.
Al: As you get more and more of the game, you will get more and more help with different things, meaning that the things you start off doing, take less time, and then you have more time in the day to do other things, and then you'll be expanding yourself out more.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: And that's def... I personally think that's a much better way to play because it's much less stressful.
Chelsea: I'm gonna have to just take the plunge.
Al: Well, don't get me wrong, I've played the stressful version as well, deliberately.
Chelsea: You've you've optimised to our new value.
Al: Oh, absolutely.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: I had a spreadsheet.
Chelsea: Oh, man.
Al: All right, the big news.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: Pocopia have announced the DLC.
Chelsea: Woohoo.
Al: So the DLC is spread out into 3 different updates.
Al: There's one in August called Bubbly Basin, which looks like it's the flooded Celadon area, possibly.
Al: may have been one of the things in the leak proving that the leak is true.
Al: Then in late 2026, there's going to be another update with additional new features.
Al: Oh, I should note the bubbly basin comes with being able to go underwater.
Chelsea: Yep.
Al: And then in 2027, there's an additional new town.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Any idea what that one could be?
Al: I mean, I have ideas based on leaks, but I... The int- so, well, so the interesting thing is, the leaks had more than just two.
Chelsea: Oh, okay.
Chelsea: Tell me after the episode.
Al: So the question is, have they cut some of it?
Chelsea: Hello.
Al: Are they going into have another DLC after this or what?
Al: Like, because the leak is quite old.
Al: It was from the the giggle leak like 4 years ago or something.
Al: And there were clearly some things that had changed, um, because like veridian was originally meant to be an area and it looks like they combined the veridian and uh, what's it called?
Chelsea: Oh my god.
Al: Rock area, Brockstown.
Al: What' it called?
Al: Pewter city, yeah.
Chelsea: Oh, Pewter City?
Al: It looks like they combined those 2 into one.
Al: So it's possible that they've kind of done something else and changed how it is, but I'm not, I'm not sure it's hard to know.
Al: If it is only the only one coming, I am pretty certain I know what area it will be.
Al: I'll tell you after the podcast, but we'll have to see whether or not.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: This game seems big enough to me that they'd probably want to do like different biomes and add to the map and have more than one DLC, in my opinion.
Al: Yeah, I don't, it's an interesting question because, I mean, Pokemon haven't so far done our like 2 expansions, right?
Al: They've done a, here's an expansion and it's 3 parts like they're doing here, but they've never done and then we're going to do another expansion.
Al: That would be a new thing for them.
Chelsea: Hmm.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: But we also have 2 free updates.
Al: So one is that you with the August 2026 bubbly basin going underwater, you will be able to go underwater in the free in the game as a free update.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: You just can't get to the new area.
Al: So that, it's nice that they give you that feature, right?
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: So they're adding in the new feature even if you're not getting the area.
Chelsea: Yeah, no, that's good.
Chelsea: I live in the fine print.
Chelsea: It's like must have surf ability or whatever.
Chelsea: That disclose what you need to get to the area.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Um, yeah, oh, interesting.
Al: Okay.
Al: I'd miss that.
Chelsea: Is that pretty early on in the in the game to get the underwater?
Al: Uh, it depends how you, there's a branching path quite early on.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: So it depends which part you do.
Al: Um, but it's not.
Al: Yeah, it's certainly not super long into the game.
Al: Um, and there's also an update that's gone live like a couple of days ago.
Al: improves the Pokemon conversations.
Al: Also...
Chelsea: It's not just, I throw it up.
Al: Well, I'm sorry, that is perfect conversation.
Chelsea: That's true.
Al: I don't know what the problem there is.
Chelsea: I don't need to you don't need to improve perfection.
Al: Look, if you're going to complain about some of the conversation, at least choose a bad one.
Chelsea: Oh, right.
Al: Pokemon accompanying ditto will now avoid the placement preview area when objects are being placed, so no more being annoyed by trying to put something down.
Al: There's a Pokemon there.
Al: I have done that many a time.
Chelsea: Yeah, get out of the frame
Al: Um, a limb, I think that very, I suspect very few people will actually encounter, but the people who encounter it will be very happy about this update, which is increased the placement limit for items that use electricity from 512 to 1024.
Al: So if you place a lot of items that use electricity, you've got double now.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: What?
Al: I certainly didn't hit this limit.
Chelsea: No.
Al: Because that's a lot of items.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: There's lots of other small things as well, but the other thing that I felt we should talk about is the laser sensor item now. Displays is detection range when being placed.
Chelsea: Wow.
Al: So that is handy for all your automation purposes.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: So you've not played this game yet.
Chelsea: Hmm.
Al: either.
Chelsea: I do not have a switch to.
Chelsea: However, it's on, it's on, it's on the list of things to purchase.
Chelsea: Uh, GoFundMe for a Switch 2.
Al: Goodness sake.
Chelsea: Okay. No, I'm sure it'll be a summer purchase for sure.
Al: Well, look, the game is good. Now it'll be good in a few years.
Chelsea: Exactly.
Chelsea: Maybe there'll be a Zelda Akarina time edition.
Chelsea: Hmm?
Al: Yeah, oh, so there's an interesting question.
Chelsea: Never know.
Al: I would bet now that they're not going to do them because I think we would have seen.
Al: It been a year now.
Al: So we're just doing been out for a year.
Al: I feel like we would know if they were going to be doing it.
Chelsea: Yeah, that's fair.
Chelsea: Well, I'll bring my hopes down a little bit then.
Al: I mean, it's the fact that they've brought out 3 types of 3 different designs of joy cons now and they're all just slightly different colours on the edge.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Right?
Chelsea: Yeah, yeah.
Al: Like don't get me wrong.
Al: I have bought the other joycons.
Chelsea: Yes, you have.
Al: Of course I have, but that's not the point.
Chelsea: Yes, yes.
Al: I can also be I can also wish for better colour changes.
Chelsea: Is that the point?
Chelsea: That's true.
Al: And we have one more update, which is cosy caravan, have released their one.
Al: 4 update, which is out now, and it gives us the new characters of Rat and Platypus.
Chelsea: This looks like a fun game.
Chelsea: Have you played this one?
Al: I haven't played this one because there's too many games to play.
Chelsea: There's too many games to play.
Al: Um, Nothing about this one has ever really grabbed me and made me decide.
Al: I want to play it, but it does have very positive reviews.
Al: It looks fine, don't get me wrong.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: I'm not saying it looks bad.
Al: It just takes a lot...
Chelsea: No AI platypus.
Al: No, yeah, bloodbus.
Al: Um, I just, I just not sure what the, the, oh, it's got a, axel lock.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: I just don't know what it's trying to sell me.
Al: you know, like what's its, what's his unique gameplay.
Chelsea: Yeah, because you could be a rat and a platypus.
Al: Yeah, I mean, I'll be honest with you.
Al: Right, not selling me on anything there.
Al: Platypus.
Chelsea: Baby potypus.
Al: Maybe.
Chelsea: Maybe.
Al: We'll see.
Al: Part of the problem as well is, especially for like games like this, sometimes if you miss the release window, that's it, you're never going to get, you're never going to play it.
Chelsea: Okay, yeah, once the, the community is established, the hype is established.
Chelsea: You don't want to like join it.
Al: Yeah.
Al: But as I just said, if it's good now, it'll be good in a couple of years.
Chelsea: That's kind of how I do about this.
Chelsea: Well, that's fair.
Al: But then there'll be new games as well.
Al: Speaking of new games.
Chelsea: I've never catching up.
Chelsea: Yeah, maybe.
Al: We've got 3 new games to talk about.
Al: First up, One Piece Grand Gourmet.
Al: So for some reason, this is a cooking management sim for one piece.
Al: Hop aboard a delectable management sim in the world of one piece, work alongside the straw hatch crew to build the greatest floating restaurant of the seas, collect ingredients, dream up dishes, and decorate to have familiar faces lining up for more.
Chelsea: This game looks like it's gonna stress me out.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Any cooking games, but the art was cool.
Al: Yeah, it's, I mean, it looks, I, okay, so I'm not big into management games just in general, so I'm probably not going to play this game, but I think I could see why people would enjoy it, and I think if you like managing games and you like one piece, absolutely I see why this would be fun.
Chelsea: Cannot ask for a better combo if that's what.
Al: That is coming out on the 22nd of August, and it is on Steam and Switch, and I'm guessing the other consoles, but I didn't act.
Chelsea: Oh, was it August?
Chelsea: I thought it was October.
Chelsea: Maybe I have it wrong.
Al: I said October, you misheard me.
Al: I definitely, definitely didn't say the wrong thing.
Chelsea: But, Nope.
Chelsea: Well, that's oh, that's a good time of year for a game.
Al: Uh yes.
Chelsea: I don't know, I don't know if the Grand Theft Auto can compete with that.
Al: Look, I think if you're going to be a game releasing around that time, be a completely different time.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Oh, it's not.
Al: It's not PS5.
Al: It is just PC Switch, Switch 2, and mobile.
Chelsea: Mobile.
Al: iOS and Android.
Al: That might be the best way to play this game, I think, actually.
Chelsea: I think so too.
Chelsea: Pick up and go.
Al: Next we have Everbloom.
Al: Everbloom is a cute and cosy social farming sim set in a world of whimsy.
Al: Grow buckets of popcorn right on the plant and make chocolate milk by feeding your cows candy bars.
Al: Grow, care, build, decorate, and explore the world of Everbloom solo are with your friends.
Al: I, I, so, I mean, one of the things that I get really annoyed about in this podcast is people calling their games cute and cosy, you don't get to decide that.
Chelsea: Sold.
Al: That's other people's other people, whether they agree with that or not.
Al: Um, I feel like I'm not trying to say anything about the game itself.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: I'm not accusing it of anything, but do you not feel like that description feels like just an AI generated list of descriptions of a theoretical game.
Chelsea: A little.
Chelsea: Oh, no.
Al: Like, ooh, wouldn't it be funny if you can grow popcorn on a tree?
Chelsea: A little bit.
Al: Okay.
Chelsea: And the way every kid thought the chocolate milk was made.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Well, I guess we thought it was brown cows, but I mean, if you eat the candy and chocolate, there you go.
Chelsea: But yeah, I think you're right.
Al: It looks fine.
Chelsea: People like self declare, we are cute and we are cosy.
Chelsea: But I think, yes, I will be playing this one.
Al: It looks fine.
Al: There you go.
Al: That's, that's, that's the limit of my thoughts on this game just now.
Chelsea: It looks fine.
Al: It looks fine.
Al: Again, similar to cosy caravan.
Al: don't I don't hate anything about this.
Chelsea: But nothing's sticking out really.
Al: Yeah, why am I playing this instead of anything else?
Chelsea: Yeah, that was.
Al: Like the world is full of cute and cosy farming Sims.
Al: It's kind of their thing.
Chelsea: I find so many games that have like ever and dream cosy, all these hype words in them.
Chelsea: Did you ever play Ever Dream Valley?
Al: Yeah, and... I did not actually.
Al: You know, they have a sequel, Everdream Village.
Chelsea: Oh, village.
Al: Yeah, uh, yeah, that this, this, always a, and Bloom, I think, is quite common one as well.
Al: I can't think of any other...
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: At least it's not blank, blank, blank, like the Stardew Valley, which a lot of games have done, like, yeah. that's a common like, yeah, yeah, exactly.
Chelsea: Stardew.
Chelsea: Dream Light Valley.
Al: And our final new game is Bistro.
Al: First up, great name.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: Excellent.
Al: Love it.
Chelsea: Oh, I love that.
Al: If you're if you're not looking at this and you're just hearing to us, the spelling is B-E-A-S-T-R-O, as in beast, not B-I-S-T-R-O, but bistro is a cosy culinary adventure where the fate of the world rests on what's for dinner, farm and gather fresh ingredients, tackle cooking mini games, and create tasty recipes to fuel the caretakers for deck building battles as they seek to save the world.
Al: So I love.
Al: Yeah, I love the name.
Al: So many times I'll complain about names.
Chelsea: That is.
Al: This is...
Chelsea: That is a good name.
Al: Um, I'm not sure I ever considered a deck building cooking game.
Chelsea: Oh, yeah, it's an interesting combination.
Chelsea: I like that though.
Al: It could be good.
Chelsea: Well, it's out now.
Chelsea: So you can try it out.
Al: It is Ono.
Al: It came out on the 11th of June.
Al: All right, that's the news.
Al: Woo!
Al: Okay, we're going to talk about find your words.
Al: And I'm just going to say this now.
Al: It's very possible that this section gets emotional.
Al: Um, so if you're not, if you're not in the place emotionally where you can listen to 2 parents crying about their children.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: Feel free to leave.
Chelsea: Oh no.
Al: You don't have to stay here.
Chelsea: We will not be offended.
Al: Um, but yeah, it's, it's, I mean, I don't know for you, but for me, this is definitely going to be bringing up some things and I have, I have talked to Rona to make sure that she's okay with me talking very openly about this because I don't think I could talk about this game without talking about, you know, my real world experience.
Chelsea: Oh, for sure.
Chelsea: Of course.
Al: So, let's start off with the game before we get into the, the, the personal stuff.
Al: So as I mentioned, you are a non-verbal child, you rock up at camp with your parent and you get stuck in with camp, you get given a communications board, and a few symbols, and then you spend the time walking around, gathering more symbols, talking to people and playing games.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: that about a fair description of it?
Chelsea: Yep.
Chelsea: That is yep, you got it.
Al: It's also a very short game.
Al: Um, it takes um, what, maybe an hour, maybe 2 hours if you're playing it slowly.
Chelsea: Yes.
Chelsea: Yeah, I think I was like around 90 minutes.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: With interruption.
Al: Yeah, well, yes, but that's the problem is that's how I don't know how long I spent because I, I, I wasn't playing it in one session.
Al: And there's a number of different games that you play with different characters.
Chelsea: No.
Al: One thing, just I'm just going to start saying things and feel free to respond or bring up other things.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: That's just, that's a podcast.
Chelsea: That's what we're doing.
Al: I just described a podcast.
Chelsea: We're just not doing it.
Al: One thing that I thought was very interesting is that you're not the only non-verbal character here as well.
Chelsea: Yeah, no, it was great to see like a whole variety of different abilities.
Al: Um, I just, yeah, because I think one of the things about life, I'm going to say as a non-verbal person, I am not a non-verbal person, but obviously I have to speak for my non-verbal child because he can't.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: I guess a thing about being a non-verbal person is you're quite often the only non-verbal person around.
Chelsea: Right, exactly.
Al: Obviously not in certain circumstances because like he goes to a school with lots of people who need help in different ways.
Al: And so obviously there he is surrounded.
Al: But like in day to day other life, right?
Al: Like you're you're not generally experiencing that, certainly at, you know, at camp.
Al: Like I think the idea of going to a camp and there being multiple non-verbal is probably unlikely unless it's a specialised camp.
Al: I just thought it was nice.
Chelsea: Right.
Al: Like, you're like, you're not the only nonverbal person there and it's just a thing they put into the game.
Chelsea: Oh yeah, it was great to not have everyone else is trying to figure you out.
Chelsea: Meanwhile, you're all trying to figure each other out and y'all have, you know, certain things you could do, certain limitations, and you still find a way to communicate with each other in the game, which is.
Al: Mm-hmm.
Al: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Al: So let's talk about the talking mechanic itself.
Al: So, obviously, you have your board, if people haven't experienced this before, a common way for non-verbal people to talk is with,
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: I will say talk, by the way, my Craig, my youngest, he always, he always picks up whenever I say Nathan said this.
Al: He's like, Nathan didn't say it. And I'm like, no, Nathan did say it.
Al: He just didn't use words.
Al: He's still speaking, right?
Chelsea: He didn't speak it, but he still said it.
Chelsea: Well, that's it.
Chelsea: Like he didn't vocal.
Al: Yes, yes, he didn't use his vocal cards to say a word, but that doesn't mean he's not speaking.
Al: So I just as another point, I will be saying, say when I talk about this, it's talking.
Al: I strongly believe that when someone uses a communication board, they are they are talking.
Al: Um, so you have the, you have your board and you start off with a few different symbols and then you, you gather more as you're doing.
Chelsea: Oh yeah.
Al: I think it's an interesting way to do things because I I mean, I guess suspension of disbelief for a minute.
Al: I don't believe for a moment that this child has reached this age being non-verbal and doesn't already have a communications board.
Chelsea: You gotta have the game happen though.
Al: But.
Al: Well, exact- exactly.
Al: That's my point.
Al: Suspension of disbelief, just just been now there.
Al: But I thought it was interesting where you gather symbols for places and things and people as you as you encounter them.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: So it's like,
Chelsea: Yeah, you build on what you build on the start of it.
Al: Exactly.
Al: So it's like you encounter a person and you ask who they are and they give you a symbol for who they are, which by the way, lovely thing is that these people were prepared for this.
Al: One thing that lots of people's experiences will be very different, but my experience with Nathan and his, so he goes to mainstream school one day a week and his class that he's grown up with now, he's 11 now.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: They are like super inclusive of him.
Al: They're so kind to him.
Al: They will they will talk to him.
Al: Um, knowing he's not going to respond, but, uh, still talk to him as if they legitimately want to, you know, include him in things, which is just lovely.
Al: And this felt the same sort of way.
Chelsea: That's.
Al: It's like, oh, people being so accepting of this person and how they communicate by being like, oh, yes, I'm so-and-so, here's a symbol that you can use to refer to me is just really nice.
Chelsea: Yes.
Chelsea: That was very nice, because that's not always the case, unfortunately.
Al: Well, yeah.
Chelsea: Um.
Chelsea: But, uh, no, that's great for, at school being included that way.
Chelsea: And just personally, as for myself, like as a parent, yes, I experience outside, not to the degree that you have, but, um, my job, I'm a personal support worker.
Chelsea: So I work through, Basically from infancy to, seniors of people with different abilities.
Chelsea: So I've used communication boards.
Chelsea: I've seen like text to speech.
Chelsea: I don't do sign language, but like I can understand a little bit of it and just seeing and you just communicate as you would, anyone else, or you try at least.
Chelsea: Um, yeah, I'm sorry, I lost my train of thought there, but yeah, no, it's, it's great to have anyone that they can, you know, try to feel like they're including somebody in this situation.
Al: No, no.
Al: Yeah, I also find it interesting because this is the way you play the game is by communicating, right?
Al: That's the entirety of the game is you move around the map and you communicate.
Al: That is the entire game.
Al: I think it's a really interesting, so we talked a big at the beginning about making other people play the game.
Al: Yes, I mean make.
Al: I think it's really interesting having to experience that the only way you can communicate with the world is by this board.
Chelsea: That's what I was thinking too, because it's like, okay, so if I'm getting a little bit frustrated, try to think what symbol do I use in the situation, I think that's where you were going, imagine in real life, the situation of this is not exactly what I want to say, but I'm limited to these pictures and words on a board.
Al: Mm-hmm.
Al: Yep.
Al: Yep, yep.
Al: Mm-hmm. Yep.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: absolutely.
Chelsea: Yep.
Chelsea: Uh, it was great to show that you see all the versatile activities.
Chelsea: There was like the hide and seek, and the bird watching, um, what else, the painting, the dancing, and the art, and you were able to do all those things with just a, like with your board.
Chelsea: So it just showed so many, how many different activities you could do with that.
Chelsea: But that little board.
Al: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Al: Yeah, you talk about the frustration.
Al: It's very true because sometimes you'll be like, oh, maybe this will be the thing to tell them what I'm wanting to tell them and they'll respond in a way that's like, no, that's not.
Al: what I meant.
Al: Like I get why you said that, right?
Al: I get why you responded to what I gave you in the way that I did, but that's not why I wanted to tell you.
Al: It's not how I wanted you to respond.
Al: And then you have to be like, oh, well, what do I what do I actually want to tell you?
Al: Um, and I mean, it's a little bit different for us, me, because, um, so Nathan is, um, less, he, his understanding of things is less than the character in the game, certainly, and many people who would use communications boards.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: Nathan isn't like Nathan can't how he won't, he's unlikely to ever be able to talk realistically.
Al: And it's not something that a speech therapist can fix.
Al: Trust me, we've tried.
Al: His it's his understanding that's often the issue.
Chelsea: Right.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: rather than necessarily his communication.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: He's actually surprisingly good at telling you what he wants when he wants to tell you what he wants.
Al: The problem is that obviously it's like other people understanding what he's communicating is quite difficult.
Al: But yeah, the idea of having like complex sentences that you're trying to like tell somebody with the symbols is absolutely the case for a lot of people who can't talk, but certainly for us, that's less of a thing because Nathan is less trying to explain feelings and thoughts and stuff and is more trying to say, I want food.
Al: I want to go out.
Al: I want this, I want that, like it's it's about what he needs and what he wants in much more simplistic terms.
Chelsea: Right.
Al: The idea of, obviously, a mental age is a bit wishy-washy and a bit complicated, but, you know, his it can sometimes be useful for people and that his, you know, mental age is is often kind of like of a toddler.
Al: He's, you know, just very simplistic in a lot of ways, which is, you know, you know, we love him for who he is, but can, I think, make things even more complicated than that sort of thing because he's not only trying to explain what he's saying, he's trying to understand what we're saying as well because there are.
Al: He will understand certain words and phrases and what they collate to, but he will like fixate on specific words in a sentence.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: So you can't be like, uh, you can't say certain things in together because you will think you're tasting something else, if that makes sense.
Chelsea: Okay, yeah, it's very, very basic like, you can't have a complex thought, like, it would be taken literally.
Al: Yeah, I think it's hard to know because he can't communicate in ways to explain this, but I suspect he has more complicated thoughts.
Chelsea: What's it?
Al: It's more like the language part of it.
Al: where even when we're talking about things, he will be like, if you say, um, I'm trying to think, he's gained a lot over the last few years.
Al: So the examples that I used to use don't work anymore, right?
Al: Like a couple of years ago, he wouldn't understand the idea of we're doing this, then we're doing that.
Al: He would just assume that we're doing them like both at the same time because you've like mentioned both things he's thinking about both things and he will decide in his head.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: We're doing one of the things you said.
Al: And if you say we're doing them in this order.
Al: That doesn't mean he's going to understand the order, right?
Al: Because that communication of this, then that is very hard, certainly was very hard.
Chelsea: Right.
Al: He's much better than that now.
Al: We're quite good at saying we're doing this, then we're doing that.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: He's much better understanding that now.
Chelsea: Good, good.
Al: But yeah, it's things like that, right?
Al: Like things that we take for granted.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Even with like, you know, I have a three-year-old nephew, he understands certain things like that.
Al: He might be a, you know, moaning about it.
Al: He might not want it, but he will understand it.
Chelsea: I don't.
Al: In a lot of cases with Nathan, he just, he just won't understand it.
Al: And sometimes, like one of the things that's really difficult for him is like negation, right?
Al: Saying not this and he'll hear, he'll hear, when you say not this, he'll hear this and he'll think that he's getting this, but you said not this.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: So, like, we have to like make, like, if he asks for something and we can't have that.
Al: We say no or not now, and he will understand then that that's not.
Al: But if you say, oh, like if he asks for some sweets and he's had too many sweets.
Al: If you say no sweets, he's like picking up the sweets, not necessarily the no.
Al: So it's things like that.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: So in our case, like this game is less applicable, but it's still, I think, very useful for that frustration side of things, right?
Al: Because he obviously has that even more because there's fewer symbols he can use and he can't make up like he can't make up the phrases that you can do with the board.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Um,
Chelsea: Yeah, you're pretty limited.
Chelsea: Like I try to do different combinations just to see what the result would be and Eventually I just kind of get a generic like, oh, okay.
Chelsea: I don't know if you did that yourself, but uh,
Al: Yeah, I... I did, yeah, I thought that was interesting because um...
Al: There's a lot of things that will mean something in the game, right?
Al: Like you'll be like, oh, uh, if you say just, you know, one of the one of the things you have to do in the game is you have to help uh, find one of the characters charms that they've lost.
Al: And so you have to go and and ask people if they've seen it.
Al: And the way you're doing that is by asking for help.
Al: But if you just go up to someone and say help, they're like, oh, what do you need help with?
Al: right
Al: Because they don't know.
Al: You're not telling them.
Al: You're just saying help.
Al: But if you say help and then the character's name, they will then know what you're talking about because, oh, she lost the charm, right?
Al: I don't know, but ask this person sort of thing.
Al: And so there is some more complicated things in the game that different things will lead to different outcomes, right?
Al: Just saying help means they don't know what they're asking for and saying help character means that they do.
Al: But there is, as you say, that point where you just, they stop, like, there's not much they can do.
Al: And so they're just kind of like, 0 yeah, that's nice.
Al: You know, which is probably very realistic.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah, I think it, that is pretty accurate.
Chelsea: I remember going up to different kids and just saying feel happy and they'd be like, yay, you're happy.
Chelsea: Or feel sad and they would kind of direct you to something else, but.
Chelsea: Yeah, a lot of times when people don't quite understand what's being said, even if it's a question, they'll just go, mm-hmm.
Chelsea: And I find that was pretty accurate with the game. And I mean, they couldn't come up with infinite combinations, right?
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: But, I bet for some, like, even for like a child that would play this game, they would feel frustrated.
Al: Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Al: Does that, does that, um, you don't have to get too personal if you don't want to, but does that, like, map with your experience as well, because obviously your your daughter's had more complex thoughts and understandings of things and therefore presumably would use it more like this game?
Chelsea: Yeah, so.
Chelsea: Yeah, so when she was, so I, my experience is not the same because she, I don't want to say she grew out of it, but she found her way through speech therapy.
Chelsea: Um, so, she was born with a Praxio speech.
Chelsea: So, her thoughts are fully there.
Chelsea: It's the motor function of her mouth could not pronounce words.
Chelsea: So, um, when we went through initial therapy, it was before she was in school, um, they basically said, don't even bother.
Al: Okay.
Chelsea: Thanks, Canada healthcare.
Chelsea: Um, but, um, we didn't take that for an answer.
Chelsea: So, um, because she has older siblings, they would try really hard to communicate with her and she had a very large vocabulary.
Chelsea: Um, one of the tests that they did was, uh, Just to see how, how her vocabulary pool was and she was way ahead of her age.
Chelsea: But no one could understand what she was saying just because her mouth could not form the words properly.
Chelsea: So once we actually found out what that was, um, we were able to do exercises, um, along the jaw, along, like with the tongue and like the placement of words and, um, but yeah, when she started kindergarten, they, we had a communication book and then we even had our teachers that were amazing, they would come up to us and say, oh, we thought that she said something different, but it turns out she was saying something way more advanced for her age.
Chelsea: So they thought, for an example, for one, they were saying, she was saying, oh, this hill is very steep.
Chelsea: But she, they couldn't understand what she said, and then they realised, oh, she's actually saying this, and that was more ahead of what.
Chelsea: Anyway, it was so frustrating to have her, um,
Chelsea: Her vocabulary like locked behind this physical ailment.
Chelsea: And I, again, it's a different situation because she did work through it, but I remember when the speech therapist was saying, like, she's not going to go to a, um, not a normal school, but like just like a regular classroom.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Uh, just no hope for the future.
Chelsea: Now, like, you cannot even tell at all. I find when she's like, when she's, yeah, I don't know.
Al: Yeah, I think.
Chelsea: It's just I get emotional about it.
Chelsea: And I know that we're very lucky because we did go, we did like go through and she's more like, you can't really tell anymore, but, I still always think of the kids that, you know, have a different condition.
Chelsea: I can imagine how frustrating it is.
Al: I mean, that's the thing, right?
Al: We don't need to grade these things, right?
Al: Like being non-verbal is being non-verbal, right?
Al: Like not being able to verbalise your thoughts and feelings is the same no matter who you are.
Al: And yet some people will gain the ability to be able to verbalise things however they want and some will not.
Al: And that is, I think that's fine.
Al: Right?
Al: Like we don't, we don't, we don't.
Al: I mean, it's not fine.
Al: It's incredibly frustrating.
Al: Our life is very difficult because of it, but fine in so much as like just because someone has a more difficult experience with things doesn't mean that your experience with things is
Chelsea: Yes.
Chelsea: That's fair.
Chelsea: For myself, this is turning into a therapy session.
Al: Good.
Chelsea: Um, I always, yeah, I always tried to keep it a little bit more to myself because I said, okay, well, she's walking.
Chelsea: She's, You know, she's not physically limited.
Chelsea: This is fine.
Chelsea: Like, she'll find her way, but, yeah, no, I,
Chelsea: She doesn't even remember.
Chelsea: Like I ask her, do you remember using your communication book?
Chelsea: She's like, nope.
Al: That's interesting how old was she?
Chelsea: Uh, four.
Chelsea: So she started, yeah, when she started kindergarten, she was 4 and then halfway through junior kindergarten, she used to stop using it and it wasn't even that her speech had improved so much.
Chelsea: It's just that like her classroom was so accommodating that they understood what sounds were what.
Chelsea: So, But then, yeah, once she started going to a different therapist.
Chelsea: Um, it was all, some of it was through Zoom, which was incredibly frustrating.
Chelsea: I cannot imagine.
Chelsea: I felt so bad for the speech therapist because how do you keep a kid's attention through Zoom, a 4 year old.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Or even just like understanding what someone says or, you know, whatever, like, is very difficult over that sort of thing.
Chelsea: Yeah, so she had to like.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: She had to zoom in, like, I can't even imagine, like, what her software looked like, she had to zoom in and had to had all these like different angles of the mouth to see if she's like positioning the words a certain way, and yeah, I can't imagine how frustrating that was for all the speech language pathologists.
Chelsea: Eventually we were able to go in person, which was a lot easier because you do it through play.
Chelsea: Um, so I don't know if people may have had a different experience like before COVID with their speech therapy.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Um, but yeah, no, I asked her about it and I said, do you remember going to see so-and-so? And she says, oh, I remember playing. But she doesn't remember any of the exercises, which is, it's crazy how resilient kids are.
Al: Yeah, well, I mean, that's a success, right?
Chelsea: And she had to do, I was, uh, a throat scope when she was or uh, no scope while she was awake.
Chelsea: I don't know if you've ever had to do that for any of your kids.
Al: No, I haven't.
Al: I don't want to.
Chelsea: Um, no, I had to, I thought so, okay.
Chelsea: This is a completely off topic tangent, but when we went, they wanted to see if she was tongue tied or if she had like something in her throat that would like limit her ability.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: So I said, oh, well, we'll just do a no scope.
Chelsea: I said, okay, well let's just book the appointment.
Chelsea: like, nope, hold her down.
Al: Oh.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: They're like, yeah, she's not gonna be happy.
Chelsea: So then they just put it down her nose, look through, and then she got a stuffed animal from the doctor and she still has it.
Al: Yeah.
Al: But you know...
Chelsea: She's like, oh, this was from the hospital.
Chelsea: It's like, do you remember what we did at the hospital?
Chelsea: No.
Chelsea: And probably for the best then.
Al: I'm sorry.
Al: I'm sure I'm sure it will come up in therapy in the future.
Al: Yeah, it's interesting because one of the things that we particularly struggle with is explaining to, you know, medical procedures to Nathan because obviously he has a lot of time with doctors, much more than a normal, you know, regular child, you know, most people would have many fewer.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: And so kind of trying to explain, like, this is okay.
Al: Like you're not going to be hurt here is really hard to explain.
Al: So one of the things that he's been really difficult with over the years is dentists.
Al: He's getting better.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: He's kind of letting them look in a bit more now, but he's they really struggled with that for a long time and also struggled with getting his teeth brushed so much so that almost every single one of his baby teeth had massive cavities in them.
Al: And so, so we had, we had to, we had to take them out and he still has quite a few gaps because he's still got a few teeth that haven't come in.
Chelsea: Yeah, that is a...
Al: But he...
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: I mean, he had to go under general anaesthetic for that because it just, like, it wouldn't have worked.
Al: He couldn't have done it.
Al: He physically would not.
Al: he wouldn't understand these things.
Al: Um, and he, he like just removes himself from the situation if he can, like he...
Chelsea: For sure.
Chelsea: Sorry, go ahead.
Al: No, no.
Chelsea: You think of the dentist for even like a typical person, I'll say.
Chelsea: I don't mean it like that, but like you lie down in a chair with a light shining in your face, glasses on, men with men and women with their masks on in your mouth.
Al: Mm-hmm.
Chelsea: Like, it's scary for even like the average person.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: So imagine having to explain that.
Al: tell you the worst one they had, though, was not the dentist.
Al: It was when, um, so he loves climbing and he's generally really good and he's generally really safe.
Al: But no matter how safe you are, you're always going to fall eventually.
Al: And so there was one time that he fell and cracked his head off a floor.
Al: And so we had to go to the doctor's head bleeding. And we got to the hospital and they took us through and took a look at it and it was like, yeah, okay, so we're going to have to, we're going to have to staple that.
Chelsea: Oh my.
Chelsea: Wow.
Chelsea: Oh, no.
Al: And I'm like, oh, so, right.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: And as you say, like, even with a typical child, that would be a difficult thing to do.
Al: But we have our, uh, you know, non-verable child who cannot understand, like there's no way we could explain that to him, right?
Chelsea: Yep.
Chelsea: No.
Al: So we literally just had me and and Rona, my wife, either side of him, literally just holding him down while the doctor came in and just went, kadunk, kadunk.
Chelsea: Oh my goodness.
Al: It was, Possibly one of my worst days, like just the horrific face that he made, like thinking he had been, you know, um, he, you know, we, we'd just done this to him and he didn't understand why.
Chelsea: That's probably worse for you.
Chelsea: Oh my god.
Al: He didn't know that it was so important that he had this because he had this gaping headwind.
Al: It needed to be closed.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: And then the worst bit was 2 weeks later, we had to take them out.
Chelsea: Oh no.
Chelsea: Oh.
Chelsea: I was gonna ask, did he pick at it a lot or?
Al: Um, I mean, yeah, not so much that it caused huge problems, but yeah, um, that reminds me of when when he went in for his general anaesthetic for getting his teeth out, he wasn't allowed to eat for 12 hours beforehand.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: And he just did not understand why I'm not getting any food.
Chelsea: Explaining, no, you can't eat.
Chelsea: I'm sorry.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: Because he didn't understand, you know, and he was just like constantly being like, I need food.
Chelsea: No.
Al: I need food.
Al: So yeah, that was particularly hard.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: It's amazing the things you take for granted before you have to try and communicate with someone who has such a limited understanding of words.
Chelsea: Honest.
Chelsea: It's hard person like for my work.
Chelsea: I have some clients that, um, they have dementia or things along those lines and they'll go in for a procedure or if they fall and they need stitches and they'll, they'll pick up the stitches and they open and not to get too graphic or anything, but then you have to go back and they don't understand like why, you know, so it's, oh, I can't even imagine for your own child.
Chelsea: But, uh, was that, was that recent?
Al: Yeah.
Al: It's hard.
Chelsea: Or was that?
Al: That was a couple of years ago, the, um, the head wind.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: We've not had anything like that in the last couple of years, thankfully.
Al: So, but I mean, it's just, 0 yeah, yeah, he still loves to climb.
Chelsea: Is he still a climber?
Chelsea: Yeah, I was going to say maybe would that scare him that like, oh, this happened after I climbed, but probably not, no.
Al: No, no, no, no.
Al: The only thing he's really scared of just now is dogs.
Al: Um, we've never figured out why.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: He's didn't have any big incident with dogs.
Al: It's just like he just doesn't seem to trust them.
Al: And I kind of get it because like they're so the way that dogs act is so unpredictable.
Chelsea: The vibes are off for the dog.
Chelsea: Well, that's it.
Chelsea: You don't know if they're if they're in bark, if they're allowed, you know, if they're,
Al: Mm-hmm.
Chelsea: Yeah, there's different ways that it could go.
Al: So if he's aware of a dog, he will keep his eye on it the whole time.
Al: And he has this love-hate relationship with him.
Al: He does not want to get near them, but he also kind of wants to pet them.
Chelsea: Admire from afar.
Al: So it's like, yeah, so it's like my, my sister has a, has a dog, so we've kind of been trying to, to get him to interact with, with Nugget a few times.
Al: And we've got there.
Chelsea: Oh, nugget.
Al: We've managed to get him to stroke her a couple of times, but she's also quite a yappy, fast moving dog and so like he'll come up and then she'll start moving and he's like, run away because like she dared to move.
Chelsea: Oh.
Chelsea: Wait a minute, yeah.
Al: If we're at, if we're out somewhere and there's dogs, he will like keep stay close to you and like use you as a human shield.
Al: But if the dog gets too close he will climb you.
Al: And I'm not.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: I'm not exaggerating
Al: He will literally climb up, he will use the clothes as hand handholds and footholds, and he will get up as high as he can so that he is not near that dog.
Chelsea: Wow.
Al: Oh, dear.
Al: No, yeah, so he still climbs.
Al: He did not put him off him, thankfully, but.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: Okay, let's talk about the games because there's a few different games that you do.
Chelsea: Sure.
Al: What was your favourite game?
Chelsea: I love the bird watching.
Al: Hmm.
Al: You know, that was the that was the one when I finished last because it took me a while to actually understand what it was asking me to do.
Chelsea: Oh.
Chelsea: Oh, I had a hard time finding the woodpecker.
Chelsea: Um, that was the last one.
Al: Hmm.
Al: That was a good one.
Chelsea: I really liked it because, um, it forces you to pay closer attention to what's around and use your ears.
Al: Yeah, that's my problem.
Chelsea: Oh.
Chelsea: Yeah, because they're kind of like some of them you can kind of see.
Chelsea: But other ones, uh, you have to just listen.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: But yeah, I'm surprised too, because I would I'm more of a visual person.
Chelsea: And I thought, I don't know if you noticed all the bugs that were flying around.
Al: Yep.
Chelsea: I thought there was going to be something with the butterflies and the other bugs, but there wasn't.
Al: Yep Yep.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah, what was your favourite?
Al: Ooh, I liked the, I liked the scavenger hunt. Because I liked the kind of the, the link that you were doing there going from place to place.
Chelsea: Yeah, I felt like that one should have been like, would be a good one to do 1st because it showed you all around the, The camp.
Al: Mm-hmm.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, no, I enjoyed that.
Al: So we've got the scavenger hunt.
Al: Basically, you've got one, each of the characters has a game, basically, um, that they want to play with you. And so you you walk up to them and you say play and then they will tell you what their game is and then you can, you can do that.
Al: So, um, there was the scavenger hunt, which is you uh, have a clue and you had to show the other person where you think the clue was leading you towards.
Al: Some of them were easier than others, shall we say?
Al: So of course, for that, you, as you say, you need to have been everywhere.
Al: so you need to have got the symbols for everything.
Al: And then there was the bird watching, and for that, you needed to find a bird, look at it through your binoculars, and once you've seen it through the binoculars, you'll get the symbol for that bird and you had to go back and tell the person what bird you saw and where you saw them.
Chelsea: And honestly, I didn't pay enough attention.
Chelsea: So like I knew which bird, but then I would, I forgot where I'd see it.
Chelsea: So I just cycled through all of them.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: I don't remember exactly where.
Al: Um, and then there was hide and seek.
Al: So there's a character who hides under a box and you have to go and find him.
Al: I don't think there was anything else to that.
Al: You just had to say play and you would go and hide and then you'd go find it.
Chelsea: Oh, I think.
Chelsea: See, I thought I was doing it wrong because I'm like, do I just infinitely follow him? And then eventually it's like, no, we're pals now.
Al: Eventually it stops, yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: And then there was the art.
Al: So there was an artist who wanted inspiration.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: The funny thing is about this is what I find...
Chelsea: I had a soft spot for her because her name was Gwenny.
Al: Okay, what I found particularly funny about that was basically every location is inspiration.
Al: Because it's like, I was like, oh, what are going to be the most inspirational places?
Chelsea: Yeah, that's true.
Al: Oh, go to the beach and then it's like, oh, go to the, and then I'd gone through all the ones that I thought were inspirational and I was like, I've not finished this yet.
Al: There's still ones to do.
Al: And I was like, oh, I guess go paint the lodge then, I guess.
Chelsea: Go to the lodge, go to the activity board.
Chelsea: Yeah, I know I was.
Al: Yeah, yeah, go pain the exhibit board.
Chelsea: I was thinking about it too.
Chelsea: I'm like, oh, well, I think the 1st one I did was the cliff or no, the tower.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: And I'm like, oh, I don't know if there's a wrong one, but then she just did all of them.
Chelsea: Like, okay.
Al: I mean, I feel like that kind of says something, right?
Al: Like anything can be inspiration.
Chelsea: Yeah, they got the child like one whimsy.
Al: Yeah, yeah, that too.
Al: Like, 0 yeah, I'm going to make a painting for this.
Al: What I really liked about that as well is the paintings then go up inside the lodge and you can go in and look at all the paintings once she's done them all.
Chelsea: Yeah, that was that was really nice.
Chelsea: Uh, the dancing one, I got a little confused with because the last one was the counsellor, and you have to ask him like 3 or 4 times to show him your dance move.
Chelsea: Or show show you his dance move.
Al: Oh, see I...
Al: I just, so I, I don't think I got his then because I did get the, the, the cut scene at the end where you do them all, but I only asked him once and he said he didn't dance.
Chelsea: Sorry.
Al: So I moved on from him.
Chelsea: Oh.
Chelsea: Had an achievement on steam.
Al: Did I miss that?
Al: Oh, man.
Chelsea: You have to ask, uh, I think it's 3 or 4 times and he goes, okay, fine, here's my dance move.
Al: Oh, I didn't even check the steam achievements to see if I'd got the model.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: Oh man, I'm going to have to go do that then.
Chelsea: Yeah, it's a cute little thing.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Um, I like the, I like the dancing one because yeah, you go up to everyone and you're like, oh, show me your dance move. Oh yeah, I've got 9 out of 10 achievements.
Chelsea: Uh, and then there was the, uh,
Al: There's one missing.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: One hidden achievement.
Al: Obviously I'm going to have to do that now.
Chelsea: More completionist.
Al: Obviously.
Chelsea: Find your words, completionist.
Al: I wonder what the speed run is on this game.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: So, yeah, so I like that you go around to every person and then you say, what's your favourite dance? Oh, you say dance, and they show you a dance move, and then at the end you go and do a little, you combine them all into a little routine.
Al: And there was the character who, oh, so I can't remember.
Al: I can't remember anybody's name.
Chelsea: Okay, so the one that did the trivia, uh, was Penny.
Al: Yes.
Al: Penny.
Chelsea: Who use the Texas speech system.
Al: So.
Al: Yes, but she has 2 things.
Al: So you have you have trivia, you have a number of trivia questions for her, which this was the 1st case where I actually was like, oh, I don't actually have a symbol yet.
Al: I need to go finish something else before I can come back to you.
Al: And I think that you have to do most of the things before you can complete hers because like you needed the paintbrush one, which you don't get until you finish.
Chelsea: That's the one I needed too.
Al: What are the chances? But also with her, she's the one that loses the charm, so you have to help her get the charm as well.
Al: So she actually has 22 activities.
Chelsea: Mhm. Yeah, I was like, hold on.
Chelsea: I gotta find the paintbrush thing.
Chelsea: So I figured there was a certain way you had to do the quests.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Um.
Chelsea: But no, I think it's just, I got so emotional at the end.
Chelsea: Like, when your mom comes to pick you up.
Chelsea: I don't know if I'm dropping the gun here a little.
Al: And you go and give her.
Al: No, no, no, no, that's all the activities, so you're not jumping the gum.
Chelsea: Okay, um, that's the game.
Al: Go for it.
Al: Spoiler alert, spoiler alert for the end of Find your words.
Chelsea: Spoiler alert, your mom comes and pick you up.
Chelsea: Your mom comes to pick you up at the end of the camp.
Chelsea: And then she just says, oh, how was your day?
Chelsea: And then you can list off as many activities as you want.
Chelsea: And.
Al: She just keeps listening until you stop.
Chelsea: And then you give her, you just give her this huge hug and that's an achievement.
Chelsea: Your mom, and I just thought it was so, so wholesome, and they did another amazing job.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, I agree.
Chelsea: No, no notes.
Chelsea: Honestly, like it was, I mean, I think I saw that there's like a bundle.
Chelsea: I don't know what the add-on is.
Chelsea: Um, unless I...
Al: Oh, I hadn't noticed that.
Chelsea: Unless it was, or unless it was just saying that you could.
Al: Oh, it's a supporters pack.
Chelsea: Oh, okay.
Chelsea: And then I saw you can listen to the music.
Al: Yeah, so.
Chelsea: Oh, that's one thing.
Al: So this is, I mean, this is the thing about this game.
Chelsea: I love the music.
Al: This game is free.
Al: Um, but there is a support just pack if you want to pay for it.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: It's a really interesting way of doing these things.
Al: It's like we're not going to charge you, but you can pay if you want.
Al: And then, yeah, you get the soundtrack and a printable activity.
Chelsea: I did a little bit of.
Chelsea: Oh, yeah, I looked a bit into the developers and they seem to have a personal experience with this kind of thing, so that's great and I really think it would be amazing to have this mandated.
Al: Yeah.
Chelsea: Find your word, that's cool.
Chelsea: No, but, um, you know, if there's a situation where there's a student in the class that has different needs in everyone, like it would be great just to even just show the video, like the trailer or part of the gameplay to kids saying like, you know, this is how certain people communicate and just make it accessible to other kids to understand.
Al: Yeah, so here's a question.
Al: What do you think the youngest child who would be able to play this and understand what it's getting at?
Chelsea: So legitimately understand, probably 7.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Okay.
Chelsea: Um, like if you like to, to watch it, maybe 5, 4 or 5?
Al: Yeah, they're not going to get the point, though, at that point, I guess, are they?
Chelsea: Yeah, like I would say, well, this is how other people communicate.
Chelsea: But, uh, to fully understand, if they were to play it themselves, like the frustration of the board and like the limitations of the board, probably, so my daughter is 8.
Chelsea: So, uh, She took a look at it and I said, well, how would you feel if this was what you were?
Chelsea: This is all you were limited to?
Chelsea: And she said, I'd be upset.
Chelsea: I'd be frustrated.
Chelsea: But, uh, I don't know, what about you?
Chelsea: do you think?
Al: I think you're probably right.
Al: I mean, it does help that my youngest is seven, so I was thinking, my question, you know, my thinking is, would he understand it?
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: And I suspect he probably would, but also he's a very clever child.
Al: So that doesn't necessarily mean much.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, I think I might need to try him with this game and see what he thinks because he loves playing games like he's into Mario and Astrobot and a whole bunch of other games, Minecraft.
Chelsea: Nice.
Al: So I'd love to get. What?
Chelsea: I imagine all of our kids are nerdy. With who our with who their parents are.
Al: Never.
Chelsea: Um, how is your your younger son?
Al: Oh, that's an interesting question.
Chelsea: If you don't mind me asking.
Al: No, no, no, no, absolutely.
Al: I said I was going to be open.
Al: They have an interesting relationship.
Al: I mean, they're never going to have, you know, normal sibling relationship, whatever that means.
Al: Um, I think certainly when he was younger trying to explain that Nathan doesn't talk was difficult and, you know, we're going through that with his cousins just know as well, his younger cousins, his older cousin.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: He has he has 2 older cousins and then he has 3 younger cousins.
Al: Um, and the 3 younger cousins are 3, 2, and 0.
Al: And so we're just kind of getting to the point where the oldest is starting to notice that Nathan doesn't actually talk because I think at some point you just don't at certain ages you just don't notice it, right?
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: You're just like, people exist and I don't really notice the difference between people.
Chelsea: Right, yeah.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Um, But yeah, it's it's a difficult thing to kind of explain to another child.
Chelsea: No.
Al: I mean, when we obviously experience it quite a lot when Nathan's out and about playing and like a child comes up to and tries to engage him in conversation and it's like, you don't want to immediately go in and say, oh, he doesn't talk, right?
Al: You don't want to remove the kind of interaction that's happening, but also Nathan just ignores them.
Chelsea: Right.
Al: Like he doesn't generally care about other children.
Al: I think.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: Yeah, I don't want to like immediately say, oh, just don't bother.
Al: Exactly, exactly.
Chelsea: It just, oh, he communicates in a different way.
Al: You don't want to.
Al: Exactly, because who knows one day he might.
Al: One day he might start interacting with children and I don't want to like stop it when it's about to happen and then I never would have known that that would have happened.
Al: It hasn't happened yet, but that doesn't mean it won't.
Al: But at some point you do have to go in and you have to be like, he doesn't, he doesn't talk.
Chelsea: Oh exactly.
Al: Feel free to try and play with him, but the chances are he won't, you know, he won't play with you, but absolutely try.
Al: Like there's nothing, nothing wrong with that.
Al: And as I say, like the kids at his school are great.
Al: They've all learned a bunch of sign language, even though Nathan doesn't use.
Chelsea: Oh, that's amazing.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: Nathan doesn't use sane language, but they've still learned it and they still use it with him just because, right?
Al: Because they're like, you never know.
Al: And I think it's it's so lovely the way they do that.
Al: But, um, different people understand him in different ways.
Chelsea: That's great.
Al: But yeah, Craig is, I think, I think Craig and Nathan treat each other the same way and that they just kind of exist nearby, right?
Al: Like, and it's kind of, in a way, it's in a way, it's sad, right?
Chelsea: Okay, swear it up.
Al: Like because they don't have any sort of normal sibling relationship.
Chelsea: No, it's a different dynamic.
Al: And like a lot of a lot of the thing with having a child who is likely to never develop in the same way that other people do and is likely to never, you know, he's never going to have, unless we don't stop trying, just to make this clear, I don't want people to think we've given up.
Al: We absolutely have not given up and we are likely never to give up.
Chelsea: No, no.
Al: But at this point, have he, you know, he's a living and he still doesn't have very basic communication.
Al: We've kind of got come to the realisation that he's never going to get to certain points.
Al: And that is a difficult thing to live with because in a way, it's a kind of grief, right?
Al: Like you're, you, when you have a child, and I've experienced this in multiple ways, because we went through a couple of miscarriages as well.
Chelsea: Absolutely.
Al: Nathan was actually meant to be a twin.
Al: Um, we uh, went to the 1st scan and there were 2 and then the 2nd scan, there was only one.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: And so we've experienced this sort of thing in multiple different ways.
Al: But yeah, when you become a parent and you'll, you'll know this, like you have expectations and you have, like, you know what, you know what having a child is, right?
Al: You have a child and they are a baby and then they're a toddler and then they learn to be themselves and then they grow up and they become an adult and they move away and and that is the natural progression of things, of having a child.
Chelsea: Yep.
Chelsea: Well, it's that you have sentimental milestones that you're expecting to achieve with them and then, yeah, it's absolutely something that you grieve.
Al: And then,
Al: And then you never experience them.
Al: Um, you know?
Chelsea: This is a hard episode for you to start me off.
Chelsea: People are like, never bring this girl back.
Al: Uh, I don't know.
Al: I cried on the Spirit Fader episode as well.
Al: So, I don't know what my point is.
Chelsea: No, but people say like, oh, it's a blessing to have a child that has like, is disabled.
Chelsea: It's like, well, you know, you love them no matter why, but there is still the expectation, like, of hope of, I don't want to say a normal childhood, but like you have a child with the hope of reaching certain parts of life together and experiencing life with your child.
Chelsea: And, you know, I would not try to sound.
Chelsea: Bad at all anyway, but uh, that's just what you would expect.
Chelsea: Like, people get, for example, people.
Chelsea: Uh, get a dog with the expectation of, oh yeah, I can take my dog up for a walk.
Chelsea: I can feed my dog, I can play with my dog, but then if you get a dog that's reactive or like, gets injured, it's a different experience, and obviously I'm not comparing paranoid to dog ownership, but like, you get something, you plan for something in your life with the expectation of it going a certain way, and you do grieve if that doesn't happen the way that you had planned on it.
Chelsea: If I'm explaining that at all correctly.
Al: Yeah.
Al: No, no, yeah, yeah, no, you are.
Al: I mean, for me, you are, but like.
Chelsea: Yeah, no.
Chelsea: Again, I do not speak for everyone on the planet, but from my own experience, and from what I've seen as a healthcare employee.
Chelsea: Like I see children that, you know, Never walk, never feed themselves, and, you know, the parents will pull me aside just because that's my job.
Chelsea: And I see the disappointment.
Chelsea: I see the grief and they have no one else to talk to, so they often will tell me like this isn't what we expected.
Chelsea: Am I a bad person for wanting something else?
Chelsea: And then you say, of course not.
Chelsea: And it's just maybe a taboo situation, but like I understand 100% expecting a different reality.
Al: Yeah, I think day to day, it's, uh, it's not something you think about too deeply, right?
Al: Because then you'd just be constantly depressed.
Chelsea: No.
Al: But, you know, it's something.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: From time to time.
Chelsea: Of course.
Al: Still love him.
Al: He's an absolutely adorable child.
Al: That helps.
Chelsea: That helps.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Nature knew what it was doing, making the kids cute.
Al: But yeah, um, he's, we've actually, so interestingly, around his uh, communication board.
Al: started off very simply with him, because obviously, as I mentioned, it's not like, unlike the child in this game, can't just be told a word given a symbol and then immediately has that connection.
Al: We took literally years to get to the point where he could use even one symbol.
Chelsea: No.
Chelsea: Wow.
Al: Um, and uh, anyone who knows Nathan will know that it was a food symbol.
Al: It was snack.
Al: It was, I want a snack.
Chelsea: Perfect.
Al: He is very food driven.
Al: That is that is his his goalen life is to eat as much as possible.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: Which, like, fair, I get it.
Al: Um, so we started off with that and um, and then it took his another couple of years to get to the 2nd symbol.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: But we're not...
Chelsea: Okay, I bet breaking that 1st symbol, you must have been so proud.
Al: Oh, it was huge.
Al: It was absolutely huge.
Al: The problem then is we tried a few different symbols that were for different things.
Al: We tried using symbols to toilet training, for example, and it didn't go anywhere and then we tried a couple of other things.
Al: Eventually, um, we kind of just, we gave up on adding new symbols for ages and then maybe like a year and a half ago we started again.
Al: And we added a few more symbols and we managed to get there because a while, but we got there with a couple more symbols and we're now at the point where he's actually managing to pick up on symbols with only a couple of weeks of work.
Chelsea: Wow.
Chelsea: Oh wow.
Al: So we've, in fact, I got one today where he used it on his own without any prompting asking for something that he wanted for the 1st time for that symbol and that feeling is just amazing.
Chelsea: Oh, wow, what was it?
Al: It was bacon.
Chelsea: Perfect.
Chelsea: Yes that's a good motivator.
Al: He loves bacon.
Al: Bacon is one of his things, but he, his, the way he used to ask for bacon was take you to the fridge, you'd open the fridge and then you'd tap the bacon, which like, in its way, is fine, but like we really, I think this is one of the reasons why we used bacon as one of these ones is because it's a very clear we know what he's asking for.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: And then we go, okay, if you want bacon, you come here and you use this symbol, bacon, and then we do the bacon.
Al: But today was the 1st day that the 1st time that he asked for bacon using the symbol without any other prompting.
Al: Like he just, he took me.
Chelsea: Oh, wow.
Al: He took me to his communication device and I said, yeah, what can I do for you?
Al: And he looked at me and he looked at the tablet and he tapped bacon and he looked back at me and I said, yes, you can have bacon and he bounced.
Al: He was so happy because I think he.
Chelsea: Out of any time in your life, you can have bacon now.
Al: Well, this is the... This is the thing.
Chelsea: This is a time you're going to be getting your baking.
Al: We've actually, we've actually talked about like if he ever does use, say a word out loud using his voice.
Al: I think no matter what word that is, if he's asking for something, he's getting it.
Al: Right?
Chelsea: Of course.
Al: Like, literally whatever it is.
Chelsea: Oh my gosh.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: You know, you know what?
Al: At this point, I'd be happy if his 1st word was a swear word.
Al: Right?
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: Like I just, I, you know, it's, it's one of these things.
Al: So yeah, it was amazing for him to ask for that.
Al: And I think he felt that as well with how excited he was.
Al: Maybe he was just excited for the bacon.
Chelsea: Oh. Well.
Al: Maybe he was excited because he'd managed to use a new one.
Al: I don't know.
Chelsea: No, that's huge though.
Chelsea: Do you work with, um, is it like an occupational therapist or?
Al: Oh, we have a 1000000000 people that we work with.
Al: We have a ball, uh, we have, on the one hand, so much help.
Al: Um, his, so his 2 schools, his mainstream local school that he goes to for one day a week and his um, uh, specialist department in another school further away.
Al: Everyone that he works with in both of those is absolutely amazing.
Al: Like they go above and beyond.
Chelsea: That's.
Al: We just, we couldn't ask for for better people.
Al: Um, and a lot of the health professionals that we work with, they're also really good.
Al: Not all.
Chelsea: Well, that makes it well, most, some, most.
Al: Most of them are, I think some of them are, some of them are really great.
Al: Some of them are trying but overstretched.
Al: as with all systems.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: There's always going to be problems.
Al: And then some of them, I wonder why they're in the...
Chelsea: Oh, that's the worst part.
Al: So I'm struggling to remember the specifics of which person is which, so I can't remember what an occupational therapist does.
Chelsea: Okay, so they, they can do the communication book, but it could also be speech language pathologist.
Chelsea: Well, in Ontario anyway, so the occupational therapist would...
Chelsea: I can't even explain it.
Al: So we've, we've had, we've had speech, we've had speech therapy dealing with him, but they, um, they, they came to the conclusion that they can't help him based on his, like how he is.
Chelsea: Certain.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Um, so I think part that's part of the problem is that he's he's not unique.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: There are people like him, but his lack of understanding is so severe that so many people don't know what to do with him.
Chelsea: Okay, yeah.
Chelsea: There has to be like a certain baseline to build upon for.
Al: Exactly, exactly.
Al: And I think the problem is that because there's so few people like Nathan, they don't know what to do.
Al: You know, it's like, okay, well, we can't, like these buckets that we have for throwing people into and helping them, he doesn't fit into any of these buckets, so we don't really know where to put it.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: So yeah, like in Ontario, um, they would do adoptive equipment.
Chelsea: So like wheelchairs, um, ramps, like anything that would help, like, with increased safety in the house.
Chelsea: Um, I don't know if you've had any of, of that or?
Al: Yeah, I mean, obviously we don't need many kind of physical adjustments because he's physically, you know, fine.
Al: We've never had any issues with that.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: We have had a couple of adaptations in the house, but it's because so we got a wet room put in because he would get completely over the top in the bath and he just completely flooded our house.
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: So we ended up getting a wet room in and that was a huge thing.
Al: So we got funding for that and we got help with that.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: So, yeah, we do have, I think mostly it's the social worker we work with to get that sort of stuff.
Al: He's the one that kind of goes and gets budgets for things.
Al: So we have like, um, this really has just turned into just talking about life.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: So I think we're probably done with talking about the game.
Al: if you, if you, if you don't want to hear about personal stuff, then you, you, you can go now.
Al: Um, We get like some respite care and stuff like that.
Al: Not enough, but that's always the case with these things, right?
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: No.
Al: And they, I mean, his caterers are great.
Al: They're fantastic, but budgets only stretch so far.
Chelsea: Oh, that's great.
Chelsea: Yeah, I have, when I was doing home care, I would do respite care for some clients and I felt like I barely saw them.
Chelsea: Just because of how far they're, they're funding would stretch.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Chelsea: And no, seems like it's a universal problem, unfortunately.
Al: It really is.
Al: Um, uh, I don't I don't think there is a system that fixes everything with, because I think part of the problem is that these needs can be so complex and, uh, you know, without infinite money.
Al: Hey, if only there was a person with infinite money.
Al: Um
Chelsea: Oh.
Al: Uh,
Chelsea: I'll tell you right now, if I was a billionaire, uh, there would be no more World Hanger.
Chelsea: I say that so simply, but like I would be, Funding things up and right.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, um, I mean, also the fact that money is just a made-up concept that we created, uh, and we still have scarcity of it for some reason.
Al: Um,
Chelsea: I love how the start of this episode was, Pecopia update.
Chelsea: No, this is where we're at.
Al: They were like, burn it down.
Chelsea: Yeah, burn the whole system now.
Al: No, I, I, I mean, this is the thing, though, this is, I think this is my point is I actually don't want the systems burnt down because I think the systems do things, and if you burn everything down, things won't happen, I think that it's a difficult thing to get to the point where the systems actually work, and I don't know how you get to that point, but I think trying to recreate everything when you've burnt everything down is people are going to get lost again, right?
Al: Like, uh, tiny changes that can make massive difference.
Al: One thing, so here's just an example of something that we're dealing with just now that is an example of tiny changes that don't affect many people having a massive impact to some people.
Al: And I just want to point, I just want to say this year.
Al: We are reasonably well off.
Al: We are we are fine financially.
Al: We do not have a problem.
Al: Assuming I continue to have a job.
Chelsea: Okay.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: So we are not, we are not in a problem because of this chase.
Al: But there's a system in the UK where if you get a certain benefit because of disability, you can get a paid for lease for a car. And you can then have adaptations to that.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: Now, the reason we get that is because of Nathan's, he can't, he's, it's very hard for him to be safe around traffic, and so we get a disabled badge for that, so we can park closer to places, so there's less chance for him to, you know, run out in front of cars.
Al: Um, The, so we, we have a lease on a car through his his disability payments.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: But in trying to save money, the UK government has changed how this system works so that you can only drive, I think it's 10,000 miles a year and then above that, you have to pay a certain amount per mile.
Al: This same system is for people who are, you know, disabled and can get around physically and therefore need a car to get around. Why are you charging people for using the car that you're giving them?
Chelsea: Right.
Chelsea: And then you think the amount of appointments and things, like,
Al: So, Exactly.
Al: Exactly.
Al: And and the thing is that like, this change, thank, it doesn't apply to existing leases and our lease is up in March next year.
Al: But it basically means we can't we can't do this.
Al: Like it would make it financially dreadful for us having to pay for every mile over 10,000.
Al: Um, So so from next year, we're just not going to use that lease anymore and we're going to have to get a different car.
Chelsea: Oh my, that's, yeah.
Al: And the thing is that, like, that isn't going to be the end of the world for us, but it might have been for someone else who was in our situation and had less money.
Chelsea: It could be.
Al: Right?
Al: Like we're going to, we're going to be fine.
Al: It's going to, obviously, it's going to have a hit to us.
Al: We're going to have less money because of it, but we're going to be fine, but someone wouldn't have been.
Al: And I think that they don't, they look at these things and go, oh, this is, this is costing lots of money.
Al: We must, we must change it, so it costs less money and it's like, okay, great.
Al: Now someone can't afford their food.
Al: Great.
Chelsea: Exactly.
Al: Good job.
Al: And one of the other things we're doing about the system is that there are certain cars that, so you pay basically, you don't pay for the lease, but you pay like an upfront cost depending on the car you get, right?
Al: So um, cheaper cars has a lower upfront cost.
Al: More expensive cars have a higher upfront cost and then everybody gets the lease paid for them.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: Um, The thing about this is they, they, people were apparently really annoyed that you could get expensive cars on this system.
Al: But 2 things.
Al: One, if you get an expensive car, you pay more upfront, right?
Al: You're paying for a more expensive car.
Chelsea: Right.
Al: Hey, that's how buying a car works.
Chelsea: Regardless of the situation, that's what it's gonna be.
Al: Exactly.
Al: Like, I don't, it's not like you're saying, oh, I'm going to get a Jaguar for no extra money.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: You're like, no, I'm going to, I want to get a Jaguar and I'm going to pay the extra money on top of what it would have given me so that I can get the car that I want.
Al: And two, just because someone's disabled doesn't mean they don't get to have a nice car.
Al: Like...
Chelsea: Right.
Chelsea: I need to think like these these cars have like comfort feature, safety features that you may want to invest in.
Al: Yeah, like I just, I don't, I don't understand this concept of like, oh, you are disabled and getting benefits and therefore we're paying a certain amount to get you a car.
Chelsea: No.
Al: You're not allowed to pay more money to get a nicer car.
Al: I just, I don't understand.
Chelsea: No, exactly.
Chelsea: Like.
Al: We didn't.
Al: We got the cheapest car we could possibly get because we don't care about cars.
Al: We just, we wanted specifically a 7 seater car because another thing about Nathan is that sometimes he can have real problems with being near people and that turns into physical violence.
Al: And so he needs to be not next to people in a car.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: So we need to have a 7 seater because otherwise he would be next to Craig and we don't want that to happen.
Al: We want to have 2 children.
Chelsea: No.
Al: We want to continue having 2 children.
Chelsea: Yes.
Al: Um, and so that's why we, so that's why we have a 7 seat term.
Chelsea: Plus, when you're driving as well.
Al: Yeah, well, yeah, no, absolutely.
Al: We've had we've had incidents.
Al: Only one involving the police.
Al: Thankfully, most of the others didn't end up being anymore, but we did have one.
Chelsea: Oh, just one.
Al: Everyone was safe.
Al: Nobody was injured.
Al: Um, but yeah, uh, we, so we need a 7 seater.
Al: So we literally got the cheapest 7 seater week car we could because we don't care about that.
Al: But like if someone wants to pay more money to get a more expensive car, why shouldn't they be allowed that?
Al: Like, it's not costing the taxpayer more money?
Al: It just looks bad if you care about that.
Al: Right?
Al: But like, oh, this person's getting an expensive car on benefits.
Chelsea: True.
Al: It's like, no, they're not.
Al: They're getting a certain amount paid and then they are paying more to get the more expensive car.
Chelsea: No, they still pay.
Al: That's not the same thing.
Al: But no, they cut that off completely.
Al: So you now can't get those cars full stop.
Chelsea: Oh my goodness.
Chelsea: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Chelsea: I don't know, in Ontario, um, I don't have personal experience with it, from what I've heard.
Chelsea: So to get any disability benefit at all, I could be completely wrong, but what I've heard is if you're married, you lose your disability benefit benefit, like completely.
Al: Oh, of course, yes, because married people couldn't possibly still be disabled and like... That is mad.
Chelsea: So people.
Chelsea: Exactly.
Chelsea: So people literally, It's crazy.
Chelsea: So people will get divorced, quote unquote, legally, to be able to have, or just never get married.
Chelsea: And it's just, what are we doing?
Chelsea: What are we doing here?
Al: Oh, dear.
Al: We have the fun thing.
Al: is not specific to disability benefits, but we have the fun thing here where some benefits will be based on you as an individual and some will be based on you and your partner.
Al: Um, and it always seems to work out the wrong way for us because I work and Ronan doesn't work.
Al: She was a teacher.
Al: Well, she is, she's not a practicer.
Al: Um, she was a teacher for quite a few years and then decided to, she took a career break to help with Nathan and then uh, went back to work and went, no, I think I'm done with working now and um, uh, and uh, uh, now does a lot of stuff, just none of it paid.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Actually, that's not true.
Al: She does actually get.
Chelsea: But yeah, you have to strip your entire career around.
Al: Um, So, I, well, it's the thing.
Al: I, like, again, I am not complaining about the amount of money we have.
Al: We are very well off.
Al: However, I am the one that earns the vast majority of our money, and so there are benefits that she can't get because of that.
Al: But if we earned the same amount of money, but split across the 2 of us, there are benefits that we would be able to get then that we can't get now.
Chelsea: Right.
Chelsea: Make it make sense.
Chelsea: There's always have there always has to be some loophole.
Al: So.
Al: Yeah, but we don't get to, so this is the thing.
Al: We have to combine our amounts to get certain benefits, but we don't get to combine our amounts for all the tax benefits, right?
Chelsea: Oh no, I'm, yeah, I'm agreeing with you, saying like, why couldn't they just value it?
Al: Like all the...
Al: Yeah, it's it's it's like make your mind up.
Al: Either combine it or don't combine it.
Al: Don't do this annoying half and half.
Al: That means we lose 100% of the time.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Anyway, whatever.
Al: I'm not truly complaining about my financial situation.
Al: It's just the whole, the everything, the everything.
Al: Yes.
Chelsea: The everything.
Al: All right.
Al: I think we're done.
Al: Are we done?
Chelsea: Oh my gosh.
Al: Anything else to talk about?
Chelsea: I'm just thinking, uh, so finding your words, or find your words is a game.
Al: Go play this game.
Chelsea: Go play this game.
Al: is a great game.
Al: It does not take long.
Chelsea: It was very good and it will make you think of society.
Chelsea: Um,
Chelsea: The way we just explained it, and maybe you will feel some type of way about it.
Al: Yeah, it's always good to walk some, walk in someone's shoes for a bit.
Al: Even if it's not something, like, you may have never actually encountered someone who's non-verbal.
Chelsea: Well, you think about it.
Chelsea: You play fantasy games.
Chelsea: You're never going to be an elf.
Chelsea: Well, you might be.
Al: Speak for yourself.
Chelsea: don't know.
Chelsea: Well, hey, what can I say?
Al: All right, Chelsea, thank you for joining me on this podcast.
Al: Is there anything you would like to share with the audience?
Chelsea: Um, I don't really have social media.
Chelsea: I have Instagram.
Chelsea: Um, at Zelda Greenflea, where I mostly post uh, concerts I go to.
Chelsea: Um, but I'm looking.
Al: Nice.
Al: What was your most recent one?
Chelsea: Most recent one.
Chelsea: We saw Triumph, which is a Canadian, like legendary Canadian rock man.
Chelsea: Um, my husband's favourite band.
Chelsea: They broke up the year that he was born.
Chelsea: So he had never seen them.
Al: Oh.
Chelsea: They never toured and then they did a, an anniversary reunion tour, um, the day before his birthday, they came to our city.
Chelsea: So that was the easiest birthday gift ever.
Chelsea: Um, so that was our most recent show and I just love concerts and music and As my children get a little bit older, I'm kind of starting to find myself again.
Al: Cool.
Chelsea: So I might be posting some music stuff of my own there and some gaming stuff.
Chelsea: Um,
Chelsea: But yeah, you can find me on Discord too.
Chelsea: Uh, yeah, I'm always around somewhere.
Al: Nice.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: Um, I actually, I had to.
Al: Do you listen to the 99% invisible podcast at all?
Chelsea: I,
Al: Very good podcast.
Al: I enjoy it.
Al: I will mention it, any opportunity.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Chelsea: Okay.
Al: It's about design and like the hidden design of things.
Al: But they sometimes they sometimes cover other things and they recently covered, I can't remember what it was called, but there's the Canadian music regulations around how much airtime.
Chelsea: Oh.
Chelsea: Oh, Cancon.
Al: Yeah, that's what it is.
Chelsea: Yeah.
Al: And it was very interesting learning about that.
Chelsea: Yeah, I know we have some bands that are huge here, and then you talk to someone else.
Chelsea: They're like, who?
Chelsea: It's like, oh, they have the number one song in Canada right now, and they're like, I don't know who you were talking about.
Al: I don't think that's unusual.
Al: I did, that was one of the things they talked about in the podcast.
Al: I don't think that's unusual for anyone except Americans.
Al: Um, you know, it's like, you know, one of the um, one of the big films uh, from last year was uh, the Robbie Williams biopic and like nobody in, almost nobody in America knows who he is, but like here, he is incredibly famous.
Al: You know, I think that's, I think that's not unusual having famous people in your country and not elsewhere unless you're in America.
Chelsea: Right.
Al: Because if you're American famous, you're everywhere again.
Chelsea: Wow.
Chelsea: That's true.
Chelsea: That's true, yeah.
Chelsea: No, all of our radio.
Al: Luckily for the rest of us, we have to have all their famous people as well.
Chelsea: Oh man.
Chelsea: But yes, sorry, I'm not a big social media person, but, um, I'm around on Slack and Discord and, Yeah.
Chelsea: I stick with my close group.
Al: You can find the podcast on Tumblr and on Blue Sky at THS Pod.
Al: You can send us feedback there or from our website, harvestseason.club.
Al: Ah, what do we want them to tell us this episode?
Al: If you could describe the podcast with only 2 symbols from Find Your Words.
Al: What symbols would you?
Chelsea: Oh my goodness.
Chelsea: See, now people have to go look at the game.
Chelsea: And see what symbols there are.
Al: See what I did there.
Chelsea: And then while you're there, you might as well play it because it's a great game.
Al: Also on the website, you can find links to everything to do with the podcast, including our Patreon, patreon.com slash THS pod, where you can get access to our Slack and talk to everyone in there.
Al: Also get access to our bonus episodes of the podcast.
Al: Just released one.
Al: Me and Kevin talking about Summer Game Fest as a whole, excluding the Swift Nintendo Direct, which happened after we recorded it.
Al: But I'm sure we'll do another one of those at some point.
Al: Yeah, I think that's everything.
Al: Thank you, Chelsea again for joining me.
Chelsea: Thank you for having me and for this therapy session and Next time I, hopefully if I can come on again, we'll do a, uh, a different type of session podcast.
Al: I mean, I mean, that's the secret, is I do the podcast so I can, you know, talk to...
Chelsea: Aw.
Chelsea: That's when I.
Al: Thank you listeners for listening, and until next time.
Al: Have a good harvest.
Chelsea: Have a good harvest.
Theme Tune: The harvest season is created by Al McKinley, with support from our patrons, including our pro farmers, Kevin, Stewart, and Elisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Mike the Brave, and our music is done by Nick Burgess.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website, harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed in this episode.
Al: Fun times.
Chelsea: I'm so sorry if that sucked.
Chelsea: I've never done a podcast in my life
Al: No, no, no, no, don't.
Al: No, I think it was, it was good.
Al: Um, It's uh, it's a lot.
Chelsea: It's a heavy subject no matter who it would be, so.
Al: Yeah.